---
layout: post
title: "Group Answers Questions on Reproducibility"
---
Of the tools, technologies, and concepts we’ve covered, 

**1) Which of these things could you apply right away or are most interested in applying?**

*Data Management Tools*
- Data Stewardship (DS) Wizard is useful because it forces the user to answer detailed questions about data mangement and provides a template.
- Evaluates the DMP against FAIR principles across different dimmensions and how you could improve.

*Github*
- Share code among lab team members
- Share code for publications
- Host websites
- Synchronize latex overleaf code 

*Containers*
- Across our different disciplines, we believe containers seem to be a tool we can all benefit from.  They are lightweight and allow for reproducibility.
- Allows for integration of different scripts with interconnected output and input files into a stable environment.

*Atmosphere*
- virtual machine that expands capabilities compared to our own computers
- allows for collaboration so others can use it

*Workflows*
- need more practice applying and using them! For example, Snakemake

**2) What is the greatest barrier to applying/implementing?**

*Personal Challenges*
- time limitations, competing responsibilities
- limitations in coding skills and abilities

*Team Collaboration Challenges*
- different operating systems among team members (Windows vs Macs)
- reaching a common language as it relates to terminology, coding languages and abilities
- teaching others lab members who may not be familiar with these tools

*Potential Solutions*
- Have a dedicated team member who specializes in data management
- Include these skills in classwork or as separate classes at undergrad level or earlier if possible, and become more specialized in graduate college

**3) What topic or skill that we covered in FOSS do you wish you had gotten more opportunities to practice or repeat?**
- go slower on demonstrations
- it was useful to have live demos, and walking step by step
- spend more time on Data Stores, Atmosphere, Docker/ containers --> get more practice and get more in depth so we can better help other colleagues in learning how to use it
- workflows
- We did not cover the topic of experiment's registry.  In several disciplines (mostly social sciences), there are increasing requirements of transparency that require researchers to pre-register experiments before conducting them.  This increases the transparency of the research. Keeping in mind trade-offs between scope and depth in the topics covered in Cyverse, that could be an additional module for this training program.

